I made a somewhat laconic remark on
Twitter recently saying that low
expectations are no defense against
disappointment huge ambitions our
defense against disappointment and you
know I meant it as inscrutable as that
comment maybe it's it's sincere I'm not
just joking around having big ambitions
having big plans trying to accomplish
something great in your life and having
great disappointments great sorrows
great tragedies in your life it really
does put things in perspective me and my
girlfriend we were we were killing time
at the airport today was putting my
girlfriend on the plane so and you know
we were both talking about events in our
lives in other relationships other
boyfriends other girlfriends you know
before we got together and you know the
problems we had there with these people
kind of throwing tantrums and freaking
out over dishes doing the dishes and
doing the laundry and this kind of stuff
and how we just didn't see those types
of conflicts that way and I said to her
you know the kind of ambition of had in
life the kind of sorrow of at life their
periods in my life you know this came up
in even conversations of like Jeff
Nelson I can describe what went on with
me in Cambodia as a succession of
failures you know that everything I
wanted to do in Cambodia failed with no
false humility you know from a certain
perspective that's true and I can also
talk about it as a great experience
experience I learned a lot from and it's
something really worthwhile I did with
my wife and some that may be more
worthwhile than what Jeff does with his
life you know I'm detached about it in
both ways in you know in the sorrow and
the suffering and what I learned from it
but what I aspire to do the scope of
the ambition itself really does make the
whole experience more meaningful and it
puts those kinds of setbacks in
perspective what do we mean when we say
that something is in perspective
perspective is the difference between
seeing something as big and seeing
something as small right you you have to
have some perspective and realize this
isn't a big problem it's just real close
to me right as opposed to maybe
something else is a big problem but it's
further away that's what i mean by
having perspective it's easy to forget
the literal and limited meaning of what
that's really supposed to be so look you
know got into this relationship with
this young woman it's going great I mean
it's not just going various
understatement both she and I are really
looking at this now as the last
relationship where ever and half as
being as serious as married as being you
know really sure that's going to last
the rest of our lives would be fabulous
she's great um it's better than could be
reasonably expected by anyone from so
many different angles and you know she
had to sacrifice a lot to get her to get
her shot at love so to speak to have her
chance i was living in china she was
living the united states she had to
overcome a whole bunch of hurdles in
iran and you know it's a very
asymmetrical situation because she'd
watched probably several hundred of my
youtube videos she'd read my articles
she had a very very good understanding
of who I was before she even started
talking to me I didn't know who she was
yet so it's not your usual kind of
flirtation it's not your usual kind of
the seduction whatever you want to say
and it was made even more unusual but
the fact that you know she already had a
boyfriend at the time when she started
talking to me and so she was talking to
me as as just friends and we went
through those conversations and we got
to know each other as just friends but
it was pretty obvious pretty soon from
my end that you know even if I were not
in the picture she and her boyfriend
really should break up see how this is a
story that unfolded over many months it
is what it is there was a lot for me to
reflect on that you know I don't want to
talk about it in terms of you know me
winning and this other guy losing but
one of the most stark and striking
differences between me and this other
boyfriend that had been in their life up
to a certain point is that issue of
ambition of having huge ambitions you
know in every relationship you can waste
a lot of time you know i just spent
several hours at the airport just to say
goodbye you're going to do the dishes
together you're going to do the laundry
together you have all the doldrums of
the univ the everyday activities that
draw couples together and the drive them
apart everybody wastes time I think
nobody likes to sit down and calculate
how many hours of the day they're really
spending two weeks like useful and how
many they're spending could be
considered a waste from one perspective
or another right I taught class today
for four hours I lectured meant
classroom for four hours today but on a
level that I can't call subconscious on
a level that's not very deep and not
very hidden
all for the woman in your life for the
significant other in your life with a
partner in your life you know it makes
all the difference in the world when
they're going through those minor
frustrations with you well whether it's
the laundry of the dishes if they know
that you're trying to accomplish
something great and maybe it's just
something that's great to you maybe it's
just thing that matters to you if they
know you've got that passion and that
drive in that ambition you know it
justifies so much of the struggle and
their end their struggle to support you
there'll be a meaningful part of your
life and you know by contrast we just
have such a culture in the decadent West
in the modern Western world now of
saying that your life is just about your
enjoyment that you know life should just
consist of an endless series of video
games that life should just be an
endless series of opening weekend
matinees that life is merely about being
entertained and entertaining others and
on the most intimate level of you know
boyfriend and girlfriend man and wife I
think that people in my generation the
great majority of them they don't
understand how your demoralizing the
woman who loves you how your
demoralizing the man who loves you how
you're undermining the basic premise of
the relationship itself just because
you're expecting that person to wake up
every morning and help you with
breakfast and wash the dishes for you
and do your laundry for you and support
you and care about you Alyssa jansport
your aspirations when your aspirations
are nothing or your aspirations are
trivial your aspirations are worthless
your aspirations are contemptible maybe
even in your own eyes right
so there are a lot of really strong
foundations to the relationship of just
started with this one a lot I'm not
going to list them I'm not even going to
give four or five examples enough there
are many different ways in which this
relationship is starting on a very very
firm basis but obviously one of them is
the enormity of the ambition that I have
for the future of veganism as a movement
which is something she relates to
something she first made or interested
in my channel first druid award me and
obviously those are ambition she
sympathizes with and you don't want to
support now maybe those ambitions in the
next five years are only going to be
exhibited in little ways you know maybe
it's going to be publishing this
children's book getting it illustrated
and so on maybe it's going to be a whole
bunch of little projects like that a
whole bunch of little fundraisers maybe
it's going to be a whole bunch of days
where it slightly inconveniences her
that I want to record a new YouTube
video talk about vegan politics or it
inconveniences both of us that we're
going to go to a protest or go to a
meeting you know little things you know
washing somebody's laundry you're
helping them out those are little things
too but people want to know that their
time is not being wasted people want to
know that their love is not being wasted
people want to know that they're not
being patient and supportive and
understanding for nothing I you know I
don't think anybody out there you can
talk about love as unconditional anybody
with two brain cells they're going to
know the difference they're going to
feel the difference between supporting
someone who's just living their life to
smoke weed play video games
watch movies make themselves happy and
somebody who has an aspiration of any
kind to do something that matters to
somebody even if it's just something
that matters to the two people in that
relationship or in that marriage that's
enough for now